All right, so Introduction to GitOps,
what is GitOps even mean?
Before I even go into it,
can anyone maybe guess what GitOps means?
>> Automation of operations
through version control.
Yeah, it sounds like you
might have known it was.
[LAUGH] Vietnam kidding,
yeah, that's pretty accurate.
Again we asked another quote from AI and
it said, if you don't know what you did
you can't do it again,
that's its description of GitOps.
It's actually a pretty good description
[LAUGH], and I really liked it so
I just kept it.
But what is GitOps again
as defined by AI better?
GitOps is a paradigm or a set of practices
that emphasizes using Git as a single
source of truth for the declarative
infrastructure and applications.
All right, so as I mentioned down at
the bottom, pretty much GitOps is
a way to manage infrastructure and
applications using Git, that's it.
So if you've ever used Git before,
GitOps is commit, push,
all that kind of fun stuff.
So what can GitOps provide?
So I'm not using GitOps right now,
why should I care, right?
Well, starters it gives you
infrastructure as code.
Does anyone here not use
infrastructures code right now their
companies like clicking
moving things around?
Okay, yeah, okay, no worries, no worries.
So I think with that kinda situation,
the biggest challenge is culture, right?
How do we move to this when we're so
used to this, right?
That is something I think is important
to break, because when you have
infrastructure as code It works the same
way like your applications do, right?
You have a trackable history, you have the
ability of approving and denying things
basically just stepping into the IaC
infrastructures code world, immediately
standardizes how you do everything
else to the way you do that, right?
So you get automated deployments.
Why do you get automated deployments?
Because we already do automated
deployments with services, right?
So it's the same principle, it's just
running in a different pipeline, right?
Reproducibility and rollbacks.
So I'm sure quite often or
sometimes you've even dealt with this
where you've had to roll something back,
and then you've been, boy [LAUGH],
how do I do this, right?
Well, with Git, you can literally just
say, here's the commit, go back to that.
And that can be really helpful.
How do you make it so
that people care about that?
Because that's the important part.
If we're not using it,
how do you make people care about that?
Exemplify the problems that
they've dealt with and
show them how GitOps can solve it.
>> Do it by hand a few times
>> Sure, yeah POC it if you need to, but
the main point is is like you might
have to do some convincing, but
if you can show people how it solves
the problems it gives that more value.
And then yeah enhance
collaboration as well, right,
when you're clicking around in a console
and things like that it's just you,
you know what I mean,
unless somebody's sitting next to you.
It's not I can pull a co-worker over and
be,
can you review my clicked
changes that I just did?
But in a GitOps approach,
you can actually say, here's the PR,
here's the changes, please review them,
please tell me what you think, excuse me.
And a lot of software engineering is just
about good collaboration, that's it.
Just really good collaboration and
working together.
So if you do not know what infrastructure
as code is or IaC, infrastructure and
application configurations
are stored in a repository and
versioned for complete history,
this allows for
changes to be tracked and
reviewed, as I just mentioned.
Those two words, tracking and reviewing,
are crucial to scaling any
enterprise organization.
If you cannot track and review every
change you make, then I guarantee you
there are changes being made underneath
you that you do not know about.
And they could also do what
is the most worrying part,
exploits vulnerabilities, things
forgotten, right, all that kinda stuff.
So trackability and reviewing is crucial
when you are talking 100, 50 people,
whatever, making changes, passing those
changes along, and stuff like that.
So automated deployments with GitOps,
this is very similar to how automated
deployments work with your services.
This is one of the reasons why it makes
it so nice because you already know if
you've already solved the problem
of a pipeline and GitHub or
Git, whatever, it's just the same thing,
you're just using a different tool.
They're potentially different
credentials and stuff like that.
But it ensures that the live
environment matches the repo state.
Now there's a term for this and
it's called reconciliation.
The concept is that when you make
a change, the service at some point,
so it should somehow
reconcile itself to that.
And do you do that?
No, it's automatic, right?
All you do is, again, you hit the boat,
let it float out into the ocean, right?
So deploying quickly and
reliably is crucial to scaling.
If you have an hour deployment times,
you're not gonna be able to scale well,
you're just not,
what happens when you need to revert?
Does that mean that your revert
takes an hour as well, right?
These are the kind of things that
GitOps can help with moving faster.
With reproducibility and rollbacks,
since all the changes are tracked in Git,
it's easy to roll back and roll forward.
You can even do tagging,
where you can say,
our infrastructure was tagged at this,
V1, this is what it is, okay?
Now if you choose here, okay,
we patched it so forth and so on.
And because of this, you can revert and
recreate things really quickly.
And this is another crucial thing to
trying to scale is if you can't save,
save an outage happens or a cluster
goes down or something like that.
And if you can't get that back in
a reasonable amount of time you are,
forced to make an announcement and
a maintenance.
You have to tell your audience at that
point, because here's what happens,
if you don't, and all of your services
go down and you do not update them,
everybody's gonna do the same thing
that you do with every other company.
This company sucks they don't
tell us anything, forget that.
That's the other part of the
responsibility, is if you don't have good
revert and rollback, you're gonna have
to set those expectations properly,
otherwise, it could hurt you
in other places as well.
Then yeah, the enhanced collaboration
part, especially if you're on a small team
of five people, it's really hard to
collaborate, and I get that, right?
If you are a one-man owner, I get that.
And you might be like, Well, hey,
why should I go through all this PR review
process and stuff like that if I'm just
one person because you're a person,
[LAUGH] that's why because you're human.
And you will probably make a mistake at
some point that if you do not review your
own changes you will probably miss and
forget.
So whether the collaboration is for
you and other people, or just you and
you [LAUGH], it does help for
changes to be made basically by anyone in
the organization with proper permissions
and being able to properly validate that.
I can go into any repo I want and
make a change, but
it won't get merged until an approver
on that repo goes in and says, okay,
cool, lemme approve your PR and
then it can get merged.
So empowering individuals to
contribute is crucial to scaling,
especially in the circumstances of fires.
If somebody can hop on,
even if a developer can hop in and
make a quick change, it's very helpful
when you've got your hands tied.
Yeah, go ahead.
>> So enhance collaboration is
not just like interpersonal, but
also intertemporal with future and
past you.
>> Absolutely, yeah,
I mean it' sounds weird to say but
you're just building guard so
you don't hurt yourself later.
And going back to that earlier one
where I said I block main on my own
branches that's why.
Is because I could merge something
without thinking about it go to bed wake
up the next day and
then everything's down and I'm like gosh.
So yes it's more work but
is it really besides sleep that you want,
[LAUGH], so that's the other part of it.
So, the TLDR for GitOps is essentially
with GitOps, if you wanna know the current
state of your system or how it looks,
you just look in the Git repo.
And the TLDR of the TLDR of that [LAUGH]
is if you wanna change the system,
you change the repo.
That's it, that is GitOps.
If you wanna change the system,
you change the repo.
Really nothing else outside of that.